[Cache] Adding Cache content from KB (#1636)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: products/cache/src/content/about/cache-control.md

---
title: Cache-Control
order: 5
pcx-content-type: concept
---

# Cache Control

> `Cache-Control` headers are one way web administrators can tell Cloudflare how to handle content from the origin. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set `Cache-Control` headers to tell Cloudflare how to handle content from the origin. 
```

> When a user sends an HTTP request, the user’s request URL is matched against a list of cacheable file extensions. If the request matches an extension on this list, Cloudflare serves the resource from cache if it is present. If the content is stale in Cloudflare’s cache, Cloudflare attempts to revalidate the content with the origin before serving the response to the client.

Reviewer: Link for the cacheable file extensions?

<Aside type="note" header="Note">

For more information about Cache-Control directives at origin servers, refer to the [Mozilla Cache-Control documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control).

</Aside>

If multiple directives are passed together, each directive is separated by a comma. If the directive takes an argument, it follows the directive separated by an equal sign. For example: `max-age=86400`.

Directives can be broken down into four groups: cacheability, expiration, revalidation, and other.

### Cacheability

Cacheability refers to whether or not a resource should enter a cache, and the directives below indicate a resource’s cacheability.

- `public` — Indicates any cache may store the response, even if the response is normally non-cacheable or cacheable only within a private cache.
- `private` — Indicates the response message is intended for a single user (e.g. a browser cache) and must not be stored by a shared cache like Cloudflare or a corporate proxy.

> - `no-store` — Indicates any cache (i.e. a client or proxy cache) must not store any part of either the immediate request or response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `no-store` — Indicates any cache (i.e., a client or proxy cache) must not store any part of either the immediate request or response.
```

### Expiration

Expiration refers to how long a resource should remain in the cache, and the directives below affect how long a resource stays in the cache.

<Aside type="note" header="Note">

Cloudflare respects whichever value is higher: the Browser Cache TTL in Cloudflare or the `max-age` header. You can also simultaneously specify a Cloudflare Edge Cache TTL different than a Browser’s Cache TTL respectively via the `s-maxage` and `max-age Cache-Control` headers.

> When using Origin Cache-Control and setting `max-age=0`, Cloudflare prefers to cache and revalidate. With Origin Cache-Control off and `max-age=0`, Cloudflare settings bypass cache. Setting no-cache also bypasses cache.

Reviewer: Code formatting for `no-cache`?

- `s-maxage=seconds` — Indicates that in shared caches, the maximum age specified by this directive overrides the maximum age specified by either the `max-age` directive or the `Expires` header field. The `s-maxage` directive also implies the semantics of the proxy-revalidate response directive. Browsers ignore `s-maxage`.
- `no-cache` — Indicates the response cannot be used to satisfy a subsequent request without successful validation on the origin server. This allows an origin server to prevent a cache from using the origin to satisfy a request without contacting it, even by caches that have been configured to send stale responses.

### Revalidation

Revalidation determines how the cache should behave when a resource expires, and the directives below affect the revalidation behavior.

- `must-revalidate` — Indicates that once the resource is stale, a cache (client or proxy) must not use the response to satisfy subsequent requests without successful validation on the origin server.

> `proxy-revalidate` — Has the same meaning as the `must-revalidate` response directive except that it does not apply to private client caches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `proxy-revalidate` — Has the same meaning as the `must-revalidate` response directive except that it does not apply to private client caches.
```

> - `stale-while-revalidate=seconds` — When present in an HTTP response, indicates caches may serve the response in which it appears after it becomes stale, up to the indicated number of seconds since the resource expired. If Always Online is enabled, then the stale-while-revalidate and stale-if-error directive are ignored.

Reviewer: Code formatting for `stale-while-revalidate` and `stale-if-error`? Also, do we need a link out to always online? https://support.cloudflare.com/hc/en-us/articles/200168436-Understanding-Cloudflare-Always-Online

Author: Thanks for the catch on the formatting. The content from that KB has been migrated into this PR, woohoo! In this case though, I don't think we need a link to Always Online

- `stale-if-error=seconds` — Indicates that when an error is encountered, a cached stale response may be used to satisfy the request, regardless of other freshness information.

> The `stale-if-error` directive is ignored if Always Online is enabled or if an explicit in-protocol directive is passed. Examples of explicit in-protocol directives include a `no-store` or `no-cache cache` directive, a `must-revalidate` cache-response-directive, or an applicable `s-maxage` or `proxy-revalidate` cache-response-directive.

Reviewer: Should these be broken up into sub-bullets under the stale if?

Author: I _think_ this one can stay as is?

### Other 

Additional directives that influence cache behavior are listed below.

- `no-transform` — Indicates that an intermediary — regardless of whether it implements a cache — must not transform the payload
- `vary` — Cloudflare does not consider vary values in caching decisions.

> - `immutable` — Indicates to clients the response body does not change over time. The resource, if unexpired, is unchanged on the server. The user should not send a conditional revalidation for it (e.g. `If-None-Match` or `If-Modified-Since`) to check for updates, even when the user explicitly refreshes the page. This directive has no effect on public caches like Cloudflare, but does change browser behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `immutable` — Indicates to clients the response body does not change over time. The resource, if unexpired, is unchanged on the server. The user should not send a conditional revalidation for it (e.g., `If-None-Match` or `If-Modified-Since`) to check for updates, even when the user explicitly refreshes the page. This directive has no effect on public caches like Cloudflare, but does change browser behavior.
```

## Origin Cache-Control behavior

The table below lists directives and their behaviors when Origin Cache-Control is disabled and when it's enabled.

<table>
  <tbody>
    <th colspan="5" rowspan="1">
      Directive
    </th>
    <th colspan="5" rowspan="1">
      Origin Cache-control disabled behavior
    </th>
    <th colspan="5" rowspan="1">
      Origin Cache-control enabled behavior
    </th>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        <code>s-maxage=0</code>
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Won't cache
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Caches and always revalidates
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        <code>max-age=0</code>
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Won't cache
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Caches and always revalidates
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">

>         <code>no-cache;</code>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <code>no-cache</code>
```

      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">

>         Won't cache

Reviewer: Should these all be `Will no cache`?

      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Caches and always revalidates. Doesn't serve stale.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        <code>no-cache=#headers</code>
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Won't cache at all
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Caches if headers mentioned in <code>no-cache=#headers</code> don't exist. Always revalidates if any header mentioned in <code>no-cache=#headers</code> is present.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        <code>Private=#headers</code>
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Won't cache at all
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">

>         Doesn't cache <code>#headers</code> values mentioned in <code>Private=#headers</code> directive.

Reviewer: Does not. A few of them here.

      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        <code>must-revalidate</code>
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Service is stale and ignored.
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Doesn't serve stale. Must revalidate for CDN but not for browser.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        <code>proxy-revalidate</code>
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Service is stale and ignored.
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Doesn't serve stale. Must revalidate for CDN but not for browser.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        <code>no-transform</code>
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        May (un)Gzip, Polish, email filter, etc.
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Doesn't transform body.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        <code>s-maxage=delta, delta>1</code>
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Same as <code>max-age</code>
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">

>         <code>Max-age</code> and <code>proxy-revalidate</code>

Reviewer: Is this correct? Just hard to understand the context w/o knowing much about cache.

Author: This was taken from a wiki and reviewed by one of the engineers, so I'm going to say yes?

        Proxied downstream. Browser facing, doesn't impact caching proxies.
      </td>
    </tr>                
  </tbody>
</table>

Certain scenarios also affect Origin Cache-Control behavior when it is enabled or disabled.

<table>
  <tbody>
    <th colspan="5" rowspan="1">
      Condition
    </th>
    <th colspan="5" rowspan="1">
      Origin Cache-control disabled behavior
    </th>
    <th colspan="5" rowspan="1">
      Origin Cache-control enabled behavior
    </th>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Presence of <code>Authorization</code> header
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Content may be cached
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Content is cached only <code>if must-revalidate</code>, <code>public</code>, or <code>s-maxage</code> is also present
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Use of <code>no-cache</code> header
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        In logs, <code>cacheStatus=miss</code>
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        In logs, <code>cacheStatus=bypass</code>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">

>         Origin response has <code>Set-Cookie</code> header, and default cache level is used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Origin response has <code>Set-Cookie</code> header and default cache level is used
```

      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Content may be cached with stripped <code>set-cookie</code> header
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Content is not cached
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Browser Cache TTL is set
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">
        Cache-Control returned to eyeball does not include <code>private</code>
      </td>
      <td colspan="5" rowspan="1">

>         If origin returns <code>private</code> in Cache-control then preserve it

Reviewer: Capitalization of cache-control?

### Cache assets in proxy caches, but REQUIRE revalidation by any cache when served
`Cache-Control: public, no-cache, must-revalidate`

### Cache assets, but ensure the proxy does not modify it
`Cache-Control: public, no-transform` 

This configuration also disables transformation like gzip or brotli compression from our edge to your visitors if the original payload was served uncompressed.

### Cache assets with revalidation, but allow stale responses if origin server is unreachable
`Cache-Control: public, max-age=3600, stale-if-error=60`

With this configuration, Cloudflare attempts to revalidate the content with the origin server after it has been in cache for 3600 seconds (1 hour). If the server returns an error instead of proper revalidation responses, Cloudflare continues serving the stale resource for a total of 1 minute beyond the expiration of the resource.

### Cache assets for different amounts of time on Cloudflare and in visitor browsers
`Cache-Control: public, max-age=7200, s-maxage=3600`

### Cache an asset and serve while asset is being revalidated
`Cache-Control: max-age=600, stale-while-revalidate=30`

> This configuration indicates the asset is fresh for 600 second. The asset can be served stale for up to an additional 30 seconds to parallel requests for the same resource while the initial synchronous revalidation is attempted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration indicates the asset is fresh for 600 seconds. The asset can be served stale for up to an additional 30 seconds to parallel requests for the same resource while the initial synchronous revalidation is attempted.
```

Author: Ah, good eye! thank you. Fixed

## Interaction with other Cloudflare features

### Edge Cache TTL

> Edge Cache TTL Page Rules override `s-maxage` and disable revalidation directives if present. When Origin Cache-Control is enabled at Cloudflare, the original Cache-Control header passes downstream from our edge even if Edge Cache TTL overrides are present. Otherwise, when Origin Cache-Control is disabled at Cloudflare (the default), Cloudflare overrides the origin cache control.

Reviewer: Link to edge cache section?

Author: Done!

> ### Browser Cache TTL

Reviewer: Link to the browser cache ttl section?

Author: Good idea! Added

Browser Cache TTL Page Rules override `max-age` settings passed downstream from our edge, typically to your visitor's browsers.

> ### Polish

Reviewer: Link to Polish docs?

Author: Added!

Polish is disabled when the `no-transform` directive is present.

> ### Gzip and Other Compression

Reviewer: Link to compression docs?

Author: We have very little in the way of content for Gzip, so I'm not adding this in yet but making note to myself to make sure I find something to link to for this section.
